---
title: "Episode 5 - Busting BIG TECH Myths"
--- 

## Overview

Tonight we are debunking "BIG TECH" Myths!

What is "Big Tech"? What's it like to work there? How do you get in there? What are these LIES we are going to uncover?!!

:::info

Watch this episode on [Youtube.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EROiTri-WO4)

:::

## Tech News

The news articles we looked at on stream:

[Facial recognition tech like taking 'fingerprint or DNA' - AI expert](https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/02/08/facial-recognition-tech-like-taking-fingerprint-or-dna-ai-expert/)

- Trial started at Foodstuffs North Island stores today.
- "actually captures the biometric data of each individual person who walks past the camera".
  - It was like asking for customers' fingerprints every time they entered a store.
  - And the tech is frequently wrong.
- Foodstuffs working the Privacy Commissioner, some data storage policies in place, non-offenders data deleted immediately, no data under 18, offenders data kept 2 years, and no sharing or 3rd party.

[Finance worker pays out $25 million after video call with deepfake ‘chief financial officer’ | CNN](https://edition.cnn.com/2024/02/04/asia/deepfake-cfo-scam-hong-kong-intl-hnk/index.html)

- “The elaborate scam saw the worker duped into attending a video call with what he thought were several other members of staff, but all of whom were in fact deepfake recreations, Hong Kong police said at a briefing on Friday.”
  - Included the UK-based CFO
- On at least 20 occasions, AI deepfakes had been used to trick facial recognition programs by imitating the people pictured on the identity cards, according to police.

## Discussion Topics

### Context Setting

- How did we get into Tech?
- Difference between technical and non-technical "tech" jobs.

### Myths about Big Tech Jobs

- All tech jobs have high salaries
- Need to be good at math to get into tech
- Only introverts are good at tech work
- tech work is solitary
- I need a CompSci or SoftEng degree to work in tech
- Fewer women in tech because they're less technical
- tech jobs are more stable than other jobs
- tech jobs are going to all be replaced by AI

### Do's and Don'ts

- do technical documentation
- do find a mentor or become one
- do watch out for corporate b.s.
- don't ignore office politics
- don't think racism doesn't exist in tech
