---
title: "Episode 7 - What The Hack?!?"
--- 

:::tip TLS Update

TechNesian Live Stream is going MONTHLY!

We will stream the FIRST THURS NIGHT of every month, starting May 2nd!

:::

## Overview

This weeks episode is on HACKING! What’s POPPIN’ in the cybersecurity industry, how to get into CyberSecurity? What it’s like working in it?

:::info

Watch this episode on [Youtube.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKSU-fGoRXc&t=20s)

:::

## Tech News

Two articles for the same issue: M$ got popped last year, the the hacking crew are still eating off that breach last year:

[Microsoft: Russians are using stolen information to breach company’s systems](https://therecord.media/microsoft-warning-svr-russia-breach-stolen-information)  

- Russian hackers, known as Midnight Blizzard, are using stolen Microsoft data to attempt unauthorized access to the company's systems.
- The breach, linked to Russia's SVR, involved access to Microsoft's source code and internal systems, but there's no evidence of compromise to customer systems.
- Microsoft is actively investigating the breach and has noted an increase in tactics like password sprays by the hackers.
- "Microsoft’s admission that the SVR hack had not been contained exposes the perils of the heavy reliance by government and business on the Redmond, Washington, company’s software monoculture — and the fact that so many of its customers are linked through its global cloud network."

[Microsoft admits Russian state hack still not contained. 'This has tremendous national security implications'](https://fortune.com/2024/03/09/microsoft-admits-russian-state-hack-still-not-contained/)

- Microsoft is still dealing with an ongoing hack by elite Russian government hackers, involving compromised senior executive email accounts and efforts to breach customer networks using stolen data.
- The hack has not been contained, with Microsoft admitting that the hackers, identified as Cozy Bear, have accessed some source code repositories and internal systems, raising significant national security concerns.

## Discussion

- Definition of Cyber Security
- Security as a discipline in the Tech Industry
  - Why are companies so bad at security?
  - “There are two types of companies: those that have been hacked, and those who don't know they have been hacked”
- Security’s Reputation in the Tech Industry
  - Why do we all hate security folks?
  - Security is seen as a blocker
- The Industry: Roles and How to get into CyberSecurity
  - Question: Is Cyber Security a stressful job? 
- Security in 2024 & Beyond… is AI going to take over the cyberz too?!?!?!

## Communities to Join

- **InfoSecNZ Discord** ([join](https://discord.gg/infosecnz  )) : NZ's Hacker and InfoSec Community
